The Chef’S Hat Interaction Game

Cards
There are 68 ingredient cards, and 11 different ingredients. The
ingredients that are more common are more frequent within the
deck however, the rarest and highest valued ingredient- the
chilli pepper - only occurs once.

Value of the cards and corresponding ingredients
01 - Chilli Pepper
02 - Shrimp
03 - Basil
04 - Gorgonzola
05 - Bell Pepper
06 - Olives
07 - Salami
o8 - Mushroom
o9 - Onion
10 - Tomato
11 - Mozzarella
Joker

Playing Field
The playing field is a pizza base on top of a cutting board. Place the
cards one by one on the indicated squares on the pizza. Always place your
cards on top of the cards of the previous player.

Description of the playing field: There's a big semi-circle in the far left called oven. In the center,
the "cutting board" which contains a grid of 3 squares of height and 5 squares of length,
creating a big rectangle of squares. The squares present in the upper right corner, upper left corner,
lower right corner and the lower left corner all contain the word "pass" for the pass cards. The rest
of the squares are blank.

In every corner of the playing field are designated spots to put a players
role card. On every corner of the pizza there are designated spots for each
player to place their pass-card, when they pass during the game. The pass-card
is explained in Special cards. The oven on one side of the playing field indicates
the place where used ingredient cards can be put when a new pizza is made.

Gameplay
In short the game is divided into rounds called shifts. A Shift is a working day in
the restaurant and consists of three phases:

1. Start of the shift
2. Making Pizzas
3. End of the Shift

A shift starts by distributing all ingredient cards to all players. During the Shift,
multiple pizzas are made by the entire staff. A shift is finished when no players have
ingredient cards left in their hand. After a finished shift points are distributed, and
the roles of the kitchen staff are divided according to the player's skils, the first
person to reach 15 points wins the game!

Section 1: Start of the Shift
A Shift starts when all cards are distributed among the players If one of the players
has two Jokers they can decide to do a special action (see section Special Actions).

Next, ingredient cards are exchanged according to the player's rank. No one is allowed
to see the cards they have received until the exchange is completed.

The rarest ingredients go to the most skilled person in the kitchen: the Chef. The Chef
receives these cards from the Dishwasher. In return. the Chef gives two cards of their
choosing.

The Sous-Chef receives similar benefts: the Waiter gives their highest value card to the
Sous-Chef. While the Sous-Chef hands over one ingredient card of their choosing.

First round explained:
The start of the first shift is different. Everyone is new in the restaurant. There are no
ranks determined yet and no cards are exchanged. Making the pizzas and ending the shift remain
the same.



Section 2: Making Pizzas
Time to make pizzas! Pizzas are made by placing ingredients on the pizza base. All players
place ingredients on the same pizza base.

The person who possesses the Golden Mozzarella starts making the first pizza of the Shift
Every Shift has to start with the Golden Mozzarella. The player left of them can lay the next
ingredients). The Shift moves clockwise.

When it is your turn to place ingredients on the pizza base, there are two options:
Option A: Place your ingredients on the pizza
Option B: Pass your turn

For the option A: Place ingredients of the pizza. 
Ingredient cards are placed on the pizza one by one, on top of the cards of the previous player.
To place an ingredient on the pizza it needs to meet two requirements:

First, the ingredients are played from highest to lowest number thus 11 to 1. As part of the kitchen staff, 
you need to be original, you do this by laying down ingredients on the pizza base that are rarer than
the competition. This rule is shown in Example 1.

Exemple 1:

Situation: One card 10 - Tomato was placed on top of the pizza. 
Possible action: Place an 8 on top of the 10.
Not allowed: Place an 11 on top of the 10.
Not allowed: Place an 10 on top of the 10.

Second, you cannot place less ingredients on the pizza than the amount of ingredients that have already been
put on. This is because you have to match or be better than your opponents to top them. View this rule in Example 2.

Example 2:
Situation: Four 11's were placed on top of the pizza.
Possible action: Place five 9's on top of the four 11's
Possible action: Place four 7s on top of the four 11's
Not allowed: Place three 4's on top of the four 11's


B. Pass your turn
You pass your turn when you place your pass-card next to the pizza in the designated spot This is done when you cannot
or do not want to place any more ingredients on the pizza. Once you have passed, you pass for the entire pizza.

When all players but one have passed, the pizza is finished by the person who is left. The player who finished the pizza
will place it in the oven and starts a new pizza. When a new pizza is started all players can play again and everybody can
take back their pass-card.

When the person who finishes the pizza has no cards left, the person to the left of them willstart a new pizza.

Section 3: End of shift

A Shift ends when no players have ingredient cards left. According to the order of finishing points will be distributed.
Next the roles are assigned and the kitchen costumes are exchanged.

DESCRIBE THE IMAGE HERE

Special Cards Section

The Joker: There are two Joker cards that can be used in combination with other ingredient cards. When played on its own,
a Joker has a value of 12. When in possession of two Jokers a special action can be madee (see Special Action section)

The Golden 11: There is only one Golden Mozzarella in the deck. The player who owns this card starts the round. It's possible
to play this card in combination with regular Mozzarella cards.

The Pass-card: This card is used to show that a turn passed, by laying the card next to the pizza. Each player nas their own
spot to place their pass-card. The player takes the card back into their hand when a new Pizza is started.

Role cards: There are four role cards matchlng the roles in the kitchen. These lay in front Of each player and are exchanged
together with the roles after a Shift. When a player does a special action (e.g. food fight) this card will be turned over
and the action is revealed. On both sides of the role card a small explanatlon can be found.

Special Action Section 
If you have two Jokers, you can decide to do a special action at the start of the Shift by turning over your role card. What this
special action is depends on your role. The Chef, Sous-Chef or Waiter can choose to say 'Dinner is served!' This means the card
exchange at the beginning of the shift will not happen. The roles of all players remain the same. The Dishwasher can choose to say
'Food Fight!' When said, the roles of all players are reversed. This means the Sous-Chef becomes the Waiter and the Chef becomes the
Dishwasher. During the switching of the roles, players keep their ingredient cards. After the switch, the card exchange happens
according to the new roles.

Winning the Game
The game ends when a player has reached 15 points. In the case of two players reaching 15 ponts in the same Shift, the person
With the most points wins the game. If they have the same amount of points, the player with the highest rank in the last Shift wins.

